# CAT-EYE
New social distancing guidelines imposed during COVID-19 have made it extremely difficult for the bind to maintain their independence. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 88% of the world's blind population is 50 years and older, making this demographic extremely vulnerable to COVID-19. Despite this alarming statistic, little  has been done to help the visually impaired cope with this pandemic. The CAT-EYE, a low- cost wearable assistive technology in the form of a hat, solves this problem by assisting  blind individuals with navigating in a pandemic-stricken world. The CAT-EYE consists of three systems that work together to inform a blind user about their surroundings: 1. Mask Detection: When individuals come within six-feet of the user, CAT-EYE detects their presence using a LIDAR sensor and communicates their general location through vibrotactile motors. 2. Proximity Sensing: When individuals within six feet of the user are not wearing a mask, the device beeps loudly. This system was built using computer vision for the first prototype and AI, 3. IoT, and the NVIDIA Jetson Nano for the second prototype. 3. Public Alert: The user has the option to broadcast an alert through a speaker on the hat. This alert will notify people in the user's surroundings about the presence of a blind individual. The CAT-EYE was tested by analyzing performance in the camera's field of vision from 90 to 135 degrees. Design iterations based on test results helped CAT-EYE achieve 87% accuracy. The results demonstrated the applicability of the proposed solution as a pandemic-navigation aid to the blind.
